---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

Humanitarian Free and Open Source Software

# Humanitarian Free and Open Source Software

In my opinion, it is hard to conclude which kind of open source software is harder to get involved with because it depends on the perspective we view the project.

When we view these projects from a technical perspective, I believe these projects are not so hard to contribute because most of them are not abstruse when it comes to technology. Technology is the main requirement for contributors in most regular open source software but in HFOSS it is another story. Apart from the technical background, contributors should also have a keen heart to work for human's welfare. It requires contributors to continuously make contribution because many of them are strict with timeliness and most times such work is unrequited.

I think HFOSS and regular FOSS bring different kinds of prestige to the contributor. Regular FOSS brings contributors prestige as a programmer or developer. This kind of prestige is concerned more with technology. On the other side, contribution to HFOSS brings contributors prestige as a person working for human's common good. These different kinds of prestige may cherished differently by people in different groups.

I am more than willing to be involved in a HFOSS project. No matter contribution HFOSS or to FOSS results in something similar, that is, someone in the world can benefit from that contribution. I think that is the meaning of Open Source for many people. I participate in contribution to open source software because I hope that my contribution can make difference. I really want to help people in need with my contribution to HFOSS.
