---
layout: post
title: Week 11
---

Lessons in The _Cathedral and the Bazaar_

# Some Important Lessons

> Perfection (in design) is achieved not when there is nothing more to add, but rather when there is nothing more to take away.

Here we are talking about the perfection of a software. When there is nothing to be taken away from a software, the software is not only functional, but also clean. Every feature of the software is significant. There is no redundant feature or features that easily confuse users.

This definition of perfection reminds me a new way to judge the design of a software. People tend to judge a software by the number of features it has, but we should really take time think about features need to be removed from a software. Unnecessary features may confuse users, obscure the core function of a software. Moreover, it takes developers effort to maintain the redundant features. Removing useless features from a software can help developers and maintainers focus on the core part of the software.

> Often, the most striking and innovative solutions come from realizing that your concept of the problem was wrong.

When people design software, it is not guaranteed that the design is always a perfect one, even if it is feasible. Following the imperfect design, a product may be created. However, creation of the product does not mean we must stick to it all the time. When we realize the imperfection and come up with a innovative design to solve some problems exist in the current software, just work on the new one.

I think this is a good method to produce high-quality software. Sometimes it is almost impossible for us to predict problems exist in our software design. Not until we produce a finished-product do we realize some flaws of the design. In order to have a functional software, we compromise and start using the imperfect product, at the same time we have to maintain it. However, we should pick a time to start developing a new version of the software. Maybe we have to restart, but sometimes it is worthwhile.

The software I am working on this semester is Vue.js. Its current version is 2.x. Prior to the 2.x version, it had 1.x version and 0.x version. From 0.x to 1.x and from 1.x to 2.x, the author of rewrote the whole software. However, it was rewriting that solved some serious problems in the software or introduced some breaking features. People design wrong software all the time, we do not need to compromise to the wrong design. 

# The Lesson Resonates Me Most

>  Good programmers know what to write. Great ones know what to rewrite (and reuse).

When I started coding several years ago, my goal was writing runnable code. As long as my program had the correct output, I was satisfied. I remembered during my freshman year I wrote a simple game, which was about 2,000 lines of code. The game was functional, however, there were many redundant classes and many parts of the program were coded by copying and pasting, which made the program extremely hard to maintain. If I am going to make the same game now, I believe I can finish it with less than 1,000 lines of code.

Now my expectation to my program is not only that all codes are runnable, but all codes should be clean. In recent years, I learned a lot about things like refactoring, design patterns and modularization. Clean code not only improves the performance of the program, but also make it easy to maintain. I try my best to reuse.

Moreover, **reuse** can also means the reuse of code from other programmers. In the open source software community, we can develop our own software based on some excellent open source software. In this case, we reuse them. I think open source software is also a good resource for us to learn how to code. Thanks to them, I do not have to build everything from scratch when I code a software. 

I also think it is necessary to rewrite code. We can rewrite our own code to make it better, or rewrite someone else's code to form our understanding of other programmers' philosophy of coding.

# Progress Towards The Team Project

I tried making some code-based contributions to Vue last week, however, I found it was still a little difficult because I did not well understand the mechanism of Vue. I decided to first look through the source code of Vue, at least the core part of Vue, to understand how Vue works. Then I would like to participate in the issues I selected previously.

Apart from trying to do some code-based contribution, I did finish some non-code contribution to Vue and became one of the mass contributors. Both me and Jonathan had some problems when we installed the development environment of Vue. We found the problem was due to the tool we used to install dependencies. The document was vague on what tool should developers use, but actually only one tool could successfully install all dependencies.

To make it clear, I updated the document, adding the instruction to install the tool because not every developer has it (me and Jonathan did not have when we first worked on it). My change was soon merged.

2 days later, I found some grammar errors in the document and corrected them. The pull request was also merged.

I also commented on some issues on GitHub. I would like to form a deeper understanding of the project via communicating with experienced developers in the Vue community.
