---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

Getting started with open source

# Open Source

## The Term "Open Source"

Several years ago before I became a computer science student, the term "open source", as for me, equalled "free of charge". However, after developing as a programmer for years, I now understand the term differently.

The term "open source" does not only mean that the source code can be viewed by everybody, but also that everybody can contribute to the project. Open source software is supported by the whole community.

## Open Source vs. Closed Source

Open source projects are built for the welfare of mass developers and are supported by developers around the Internet to stay vigorous and robust.

Everyone on the Internet can have access to open source software. In this sense, starters in specific fields do not have financial cost at the beginning. For example if a developer wants to learn front-end development, he/she would probably choose to learn an open source framework because it is easy to set up and do not cost money. This feature helps open source software gain popularity among developers. As these beginners become old hands, they will to contribute to these open source software. An eco-system is built in this way.

Since everyone has access to the code, those who find bugs in the software can immediately fix it. The maintenance of open source software is conducted by the whole community instead of some specific people. In this way, open source software is developed and maintained efficiently.

## Potential Problems

An open source software may be used widely. Once there exists a problem, those who use the software all become vulnerable. Since the source code is open, it is easy for malicious people to find vulnerabilities in the software and attack other users.

Most open source software are developed and maintained voluntarily. A potential problem is that if no one is willing to maintain the project, the project may die. Those rely on the software may turn to alternatives because it takes less cost compared to maintain the software by themselves. Finally the software fades.

## The Reason I Take This Class

I have been benefiting from open source software for years and I want to contribute to the open source community. I take this class to gain a deeper understanding of the open source community and learn tools and methods to contribute to the community.

I think the development of open source software and the development of enterprise software have something in common. Through learning and contributing to open source software, I want to enhance my ability to develop large scale software and collaborate with experienced developers.

# Projects

## Vue.js

This is an open source web front-end framework and is my favorite front-end framework.

I use it to develop web pages. It changes the way people develop web pages. In the past front-end developers use JavaScript to manipulate DOMs but with Vue.js I do not need to worry about DOMs. The markup code can deal with the logic of the page and in JavaScript code attention is paid to the inner detail of methods on the page.

Some alternatives I know are React.js and Angular, but Vue.js is easier to get started with.

## Express

This is a back-end framework in Node.js. It encapsulate some low-level code so that developers can focus on the application level. Before I learned Express, I tried to implement a simple server with the `net` module in Node.js. Express does save me a lot of time when I build a web server with it.

Koa may be an alternative for Express. However, among all back-end frameworks in Node.js, Express is the one that has relatively better eco-system.

## ESLint

This is a linter for JavaScript. ESLint is the only linter for JavaScript that I have ever used. It is a perfect tool for team collaboration because the coding style can be standardized with such a linter. I always get ESLint installed even if the project is carried out by myself only, since it can standardize my own coding style.

Other JavaScript linter, like JSLint, JSHint are also good. As long as ESLint has fulfilled my requirement, I will stick to it in the future.

## Webpack

This is a bundler for JavaScript. Modules are not well supported in JavaScript when I develop front-end web pages. With Webpack I can separate the project to different modules. When it comes to deployment, Webpack will bundle the project for me and the size of the source code is minimized.

Grunt and Gulp, as far as I know are other bundlers, but they work in different ways from Webpack. Usage of different bundlers depends on the context.

