---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---
Open Source Software Pattern

# Cathedral Model vs. Bazaar Model

The cathedral model is a model where a software is developed by a small group of people. It is just like building a cathedral. A few experienced craftsman are responsible for the design and construction of a cathedral. The software will not be released until it is completely functional.

The bazaar model is different. It is similar to what nowadays people do in the open source software community. Source code of the software is open to the community. The software is released and updated frequently, even if the released version is unstable. It encourages the whole community to find problems and solve problems.

I prefer the bazaar model because I believe that the more people participate in the development process, the easier and faster to solve problems the software has. In the essay, there is a point that the cost of communication increases quadratically and the efficiency increases linearly when more people join in the group. However, I think in a well-structured bazaar model, not everyone need to communicate with one another, but there are some main maintainers communicating with community members, which reduce the communication cost to linear or even less.

However, I don't believe all software can be developed in the bazaar model, for example, some commercial software must developed and maintained by a core developer group instead of the public.

Generally, I think bazaar is a good model for most software development.

# Lessons

> Good programmers know what to write. Great ones know what to rewrite (and reuse).

It is important to organize the code and writing functional code is far not enough for a good program. As time goes by, more and more features are added to the program, a program created by great programmers should be easy for contributors to implement new features. At the same time, a good program stays robust after new features are introduced. Programs with these kinds of properties are ideal programs to be contributed by developers and is not possible to become outdated.

> Given a large enough beta-tester and co-developer base, almost every problem will be characterized quickly and the fix obvious to someone.

Sometimes the number of people developing the software can really have impact on the bug solving and that is why beta versions are released. A large co-developer base can find problems that are easy to be ignored. With source code open, developers can penetrate the surface of the software and figure out the bug on code-level.

# Free vs. Open

Free software and open software are similar in the accessibility of their source code. Their source code are open to the public.

However, open source software make the source code open to make the software better development. Its goal is to develop a good software. Some open source software does not allow the distribution of a modified version of the software. Free software focuses on the freedom of users. It ensures users' rights are not intervened by the software. It is also worthy pointing out that some tyrant devices are open, but not actually free.

# Team Project Progress

I looked through the issue list of Vue and got some issues possible for our team to make some contributions.

Since we are going to modify the source code and check whether the modification solves an issue, setting up the development environment is not enough. I learned how to test and build the project in order to have a copy of code suitable for production environment. Moreover, I successfully ran the code in production environment and reproduced some problems mentioned in some issues.

Some issues we would like to work around are [#9742](https://github.com/vuejs/vue/issues/9742), [#9663](https://github.com/vuejs/vue/issues/9663) and [#9467](https://github.com/vuejs/vue/issues/9467). We picked some issues being open for more than 2 weeks without working around, because some really "fresh" issues will be closed immediately and we found some long-lasting issues to make sure they are the ones that maintainers want to have some people work around. Comparatively, these issues are not complicated and it is possible for a group like us to work out some solutions.
