---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---
Team Project And Wikipedia

# Progress Towards Team Project

I have already set up the development environment of Vue and successfully ran all test scripts, which means I could start modifying the source code and check if the modification satisfy the standard.

Passing all test script took me about 3 minutes and I was curious about what happened in the testing process. I learned that the test scripts were divided into two parts: **Unit Test** and **E2E Test**. Unit Test is carried out from the angle of programmers, programmers write code to check if the output matches the input. However, E2E Test treats the program as a black box, it simulates the process that users interact with the program and get information displaying on their screens. Both tests are helpful for a web front-end framework like Vue.

Following the link provided on the [Vue Organization Website](https://vuejs.org), I joined their discussion group on _Discord App_ and started communicating with other developers in the Vue community.

After looking through issues I could work on, I realized that I should first understand the source code before modifying them. I found that the source code is different from the traditional JavaScript code because it uses [rollup.js](https://rollupjs.org/) to bundle modules and [flow](https://flow.org/en/) to statically check types in JavaScript. This week I read the documentation of these two libraries to get familiar with the source code.

In the coming week, I plan to read the source code of Vue and search for issues I am able to make some contributions.

# People Contribute to Wikipedia

In my opinion, everyone is able to contribute to Wikipedia because everyone has some specialized fields. Due to the resources one has access to, he/she may share them via Wikipedia.

However, not everyone wants to make contributions to Wikipedia. I thinks it is people who are willing to share their knowledge without asking for rewards that contribute to Wikipedia. They selfishly share their knowledge on the Internet.

# I As A Contributor

I think I may become a regular contributor in the future.

As a programmer, if I create something popular in the future, I will definitely maintain the content about my creative work on Wikipedia.

I am also willing to contribute to things relating to my professional knowledge and share them with people around the world.

# Articles to Contribute

I will focus on articles relating to my major and entertainment I enjoy in my leisure time.

I want to contribute to some articles about programming languages or frameworks I frequently use and am familiar with. Moreover, I love playing video games and am willing to contribute to articles about my favorite video games.

I also plan to translate some articles to Chinese on Wikipedia.

# Jimmy's TED Talk

In Jimmy's TED Talk, he pointed out that "neutral point of view policy" was the most important thing. However, it is really hard to determine whether someone's standpoint is neutral or not. He also discussed the Neo-Nazi Organization in the TED Talk that revealed some potential problems in the pattern of Wikipedia. I think it is almost impossible to obtain "absolute neutrality" because people have different understanding of neutrality. In fact, with the effort of mass contributors and administrators, a "relative neutrality" is feasible.
