---
layout: post
title: Week 12
---

Kevin Fleming's Talk

# Interesting And Surprising Points

What impressed me most during Kevin Fleming's talk was the attitude that Bloomberg took towards open source software.

Bloomberg gives support to many open source software, and I find that Bloomberg actually uses these software. I remember Kevin said they found a closed source software developed by Bloomberg could not satisfy their requirement so they turned to open source communities. Later, they got solutions to their problems using open source software.

This is a win-win situation. For those companies embrace open source software, they are helped by the whole open source community instead a limited group consisting of staff in the company. This makes it easy to find and solve problems exist in the tools those companies rely on. On the other side, due to these companies' support, open source communities are invigorated.

Embracing open source software is a way for companies and open source communities to benefit from each other.

# Progress Towards The Team Project

I continued working on understanding mechanism of Vue.js to build a foundation before I modify the source code. As a revealed more and more about the inner construction of Vue.js, I learned that the project was so different from what I once thought as a user.

I learned how a Vue instance was created. In the implementation, the creation of a Vue instance is divided into different parts. Properties of a Vue instance are not attached to it at the same time. This also makes the construction of Vue instance modularized. I can now quickly figure out which part is relevant when I look through issues.

There are few open issues posted this week because many issues were closed immediately after they were posted. I would like to focused on issues that remain open for several weeks.

I found that if a modification introduces new features, test scripts should also be written to ensure the feasibility of these features in the future. Therefore, I learned how to test using [karma](https://karma-runner.github.io/latest/index.html) in case my pull requests in the future require me to write some test scripts.

**Update (Apr 20):** I did some workaround on an existing issue, but have not worked it out yet. I posted some clues I discovered during my workaround as a comment in the [issue](https://github.com/vuejs/vue/issues/9573).
