---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

Learning `git` and developing browser extension

# My contributions to the extension

- I Initialized the project by adding/configuring following files:
    - Code of Conduct
    - Contributing Guidelines(`CONTRIBUTING.md`)
    - License
    - `.gitignore` file
    - `ESLint` config file
- I got started with developing Firefox extensions following the [Browser Extensions - MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions) document and figured out some points that were significant to our project:
    - Understanding the difference among `content_script`, `background`, and `popup`
    - Getting the URL of current tab when clicking on the popup window
    - Interacting with storage

# The state of our browser extension

There are complete documents about our project and the file structure is configured.

The project now has minimal function and simple user interface. Since our group is formed in the second week, we started a little bit later than other teams. We will try to work out a functional extension by the end of this Friday.

# New things I learned about `git` and `GitHub`

I learned the difference between different remote repositories. I have seen branch named `upstream` before but did not understand its usage. After this week's class, I learned that it is necessary to have a `origin` remote repo and a `upstream` remote repo if I want to track the update of some open source projects and at the same time make my own changes to it.

When it comes to `git`, I learned how to create new branches and merge different branches. The more important thing in merging branches is handling merge conflicts.
