---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

Working on existing open source projects.

# Christos's Presentation

After watching Christos's presentation, I learned more about how people benefit from open source projects. In the past, I thought only proficient developer were capable to contribute to open source projects. However, the data listed by Christos and his own experience illustrated that people can develop their skills in the process of contributing to open source software.

Before the presentation, I knew little about Mozilla apart from the web browser Firefox. I was amazed to know so many open source projects developed by Mozilla. The one that impressed me was [Common Voice](https://voice.mozilla.org/).  Voice detection is a complicated project and it requires a lot of training data. The idea of letting the public contribute their voice and making the software open source is very cool. I think such project reflects Mozilla's mission, making technology accessible to the public.

# License of The Project

The project I choose is [Vue](https://vuejs.org) and its license is [MIT](https://github.com/vuejs/vue/blob/dev/LICENSE). MIT License allows the usage within commercial software and private software. It is very permissive. Users can not only modify the software but also distribute the software. The author of the open source software is not responsible for the consequence caused by users of the software.

# Installation of Development Environment

I referred to the [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/vuejs/vue/blob/dev/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) of Vue.js. I first cloned the repository and tried installing dependencies using `npm`.

In the developing document, packages can be installed either using `npm` or `yarn` and since I do not have `yarn` installed on my computer, I used `npm`.

Everything worked well when I installed dependencies and the distribution file was built successfully when I run:

```bash
npm run dev
```

or

```bash
npm run build
```

However, when I tried running the test scripts using the command:

```bash
npm run test
```

There was an error telling me versions of some dependencies were unmatched. All test cases were supposed to be passed because I did not modify any file at this point.

I returned to the GitHub Repository and found that there was only a `yarn.lock` file but not `package-lock.json` file.

I then installed `yarn`, removed `node_modules` and `package-lock.json`(it was generated after I installed dependencies) files and run:

```bash
yarn
yarn run test
```

All test cases were passed.

Maybe there are different ways to fix this problem, however, as a starting contributors who gets used using `npm`, I am confused by the instruction.

I have already sent an [issue](https://github.com/vuejs/vue/issues/9606) about my experience. If is really is a problem, I will create a pull request to the document.
