---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---

Team collaboration on the browser extension project

# My experience

I am the one in our team who initialized the project. I have never created a formal open source software and there are a lot of things to be concerned.

In the past, I used `git` to manage my personal projects or collaborate with other developers. When it comes to my personal projects, I never treated them as formal open source projects therefore most of them did not have open source licenses, and of course no things like code of conduct or contributing guideline.

Now, when I work with others to develop a true open source software, these documents I never paid attention to become really important. I spent a lot of time doing research about what should be contained in these documents. It also took me some time to figure out the coding style in this project. I was not sufficiently serious to coding style in my personal projects but I know it is key to the long-term development of such a project, so I regulated coding style for CSS, JavaScript and commit messages. I installed ESLint to lint JavaScript files.

At the beginning, developing a browser extension was not so smooth. It took me several hours to figure out the basic principles an extension works. I spent hours reading documents and tried to have something functional.

# Collaborate with team members

Unfortunately, one of our team members dropped the class and there are only 2 people in our team. 

I came up with the idea to develop a to-do list extension and the other team member, Andrew agreed with me, so it did not take us a lot of effort to finalize the idea. 

Andrew, is capable in writing HTML and CSS but not familiar with JavaScript and I have previous experience on JavaScript. We decided to separate the work into two parts, I would be responsible for the functional part of the extension and Andrew would adding style to it after we work is done.

We collaborated remotely. After Andrew pushed the code, I reviewed his code and gave him some advice on the coding style. It is pleasant to work with Andrew.

I pay a lot of attention to the coding style because I do not want the project to become a mess. I really appreciate contribution from other students in this class. 
